Etchemin was a language of the Algonquian language family, spoken in early colonial times on the coast of Maine. The word Etchemin is thought to be either French alteration of an Algonquian word for "canoe" or a translation of "Skidijn" the native word for people in use by the inhabitants of the St. John, Passamaquoddy and St. Croix Rivers.

Norridgewock was the name of both an Indigenous village and a band of the Abenaki ("People of the Dawn") Native Americans/First Nations, an Eastern Algonquian tribe of the United States and Canada. The French of New France called the village Kennebec. The tribe occupied an area in the interior of Maine. During colonial times, this area was territory disputed between British and French colonists, and was set along the claimed western border of Acadia, the western bank of the Kennebec River.

The Algic (also Algonquian–Wiyot–Yurok or Algonquian–Ritwan)[1][2] languages are an indigenous language family of North America. Most Algic languages belong to the Algonquian subfamily, dispersed over a broad area from the Rocky Mountains to Atlantic Canada. The other Algic languages are the Yurok and Wiyot of northwestern California, which, despite their geographic proximity, are not closely related. All these languages descend from Proto-Algic, a second-order proto-language estimated to have been spoken about 7,000 years ago and reconstructed using the reconstructed Proto-Algonquian language and the Wiyot and Yurok languages.

Yurok (also Chillula, Mita, Pekwan, Rikwa, Sugon, Weitspek, Weitspekan) is an Algic language.[2] It is the traditional language of the Yurok people of Del Norte County and Humboldt County on the far north coast of California, most of whom now speak English. The last native speaker died in 2013.[1] As of 2012, Yurok language classes were taught to high school students, and other revitalization efforts were expected to increase the population of speakers.[3

The Wəlastəkwewiyik, or Maliseet (English: /ˈmæləˌsiːt/,[1] also spelled Malecite), are an Algonquian-speaking First Nation of the Wabanaki Confederacy. They are the indigenous people of the Wəlastək River (Saint John River) valley and its tributaries. Their territory extends across the current borders of New Brunswick and Quebec in Canada, and parts of Maine in the United States.

The Passamaquoddy (Peskotomuhkati or Pestomuhkati in the Passamaquoddy language) are an American Indian/First Nations people who live in northeastern North America, primarily in Maine, United States, and New Brunswick, Canada.

The Wabanaki Confederacy (Wabenaki, Wobanaki, translated to "People of the Dawn" or "Easterner") is a North American First Nations and Native American confederation of four principal Eastern Algonquian nations: the Miꞌkmaq, Maliseet (Wolastoqey), Passamaquoddy (Peskotomahkati) and Penobscot. The Western Abenaki are also considered members, being a loose identity for a number of allied tribal peoples such as the Sokoki, Cowasuck, Missiquoi, and Arsigantegok, among others.

The Cowasuck, also known as Cowass, was an Algonquian-speaking Native American tribe in northeastern North America, linguistically and culturally belonging to the Western Abenaki as well as being members of the Abenaki Confederation.[1] Today, the Cowasuck Band of the Pennacook-Abenaki People also known as Cowass North American, a nonprofit corporation, claims to be the encompassing organization of these peoples descendants.[2]

The Atsugewi are Native Americans residing in northeastern California, United States. Their traditional lands are near Mount Shasta, specifically the Pit River drainage on Burney, Hat, and Dixie Valley or Horse Creeks. They are closely related to the Achomawi and consisted of two groups (the Atsugé and the Apwaruge). The Atsugé ("pine-tree people") traditionally are from the Hat Creek area, and the Apwaruge ("juniper-tree people") are from the Dixie Valley. They lived to the south of the Achomawi.[2]

The Missiquoi (or the Missisquoi or the Sokoki) are a Native American tribe located in the Wabanaki region of what now is northern Vermont and southern Quebec. This Algonquian group is a sub-group of the Abenaki who lived along the eastern shore of Lake Champlain at the time of the European incursion. Their name Missiassik, which "Missisquois" is derived, means "place of flint" in the Abenaki language; or alternatively, from "Masipskoik a word that means "place where there are boulders", more specifically "boulders point."[1]

The Abenaki (Abnaki, Abinaki, Alnôbak) are a Native American tribe and First Nation. They are one of the Algonquian-speaking peoples of northeastern North America. The Abenaki originated in a region called Wabanahkik in the Eastern Algonquian languages (meaning "Dawn Land"), a territory now including parts of Quebec and the Maritimes of Canada and northern sections of the New England region of the United States. The Abenaki are one of the five members of the Wabanaki Confederacy.

Tradition indicates Thury named the chapel after a Mi’kmaq Chief Aspinquid (Aspenquid), who converted to Catholicism and drew many others into the faith. Thury arrived at Acadia in 1684 and travelled with St. Aspinquid throughout the region, including present-day Nova Scotia.[1][2][3] (During much of the 17th and early 18th centuries, Norridgewock on the Kennebec River and Castine at the end of the Penobscot River were the southernmost settlements of Acadia.)[4]

Chief Aspinquid was the "Chief Sacham of all the Tribes of Indians in the Northern District of North America."[5] During King William's War he was also a political figure who signed a treaty with Massachusetts Governor William Phips on August 11, 1693.[6] Captain Pasco Chubb murdered Chief Aspinquid at Pemaquid in February 1696.[7] Thury, a Mi'kmaq militia and others of the Wabanki Confederacy exacted revenge a few months later in the Siege of Pemaquid (1696).[8] As a result, Aspinquid was made a martyr and became a saint. He is buried at Mount Agamenticus in present-day Maine.[9][10]

After the death of St. Aspinquid, Father Louis-Pierre Thury officially became the missionary to the Mi'kmaq people at Shubenacadie and Chibouctou (Halifax) (1698).[11][12][13][14] Thury was the first missionary assigned to Halifax.


The Battle of the Aguadores was a sharp skirmish on the banks of the Aguadores River near Santiago de Cuba, on 1 July 1898, at the height of the Spanish–American War. The American attack was intended as a feint to draw Spanish defenders away from their nearby positions at San Juan Hill and El Caney, where the main blows fell later that day.[3]

Ahupuaʻa O Kahana State Park, formerly Kahana Valley State Park, is located on the windward side of Oʻahu between Kaʻaʻawa and Punaluʻu.[1] The park is located mauka (up hill) from Kahana Bay. It is Hawaii's only public ahupuaʻa, and it stretches from the sea to the tip of Puʻu Pauao at 2670 feet. It has a tropical climate, and it is one of the wettest areas in Oʻahu, averaging nearly 300 inches per year in parts of the valley. The main purpose of the park is to embrace and teach Hawaiian culture.[2]

A Pocosin is a type of palustrine wetland[1] with deep, acidic, sandy, peat soils. Groundwater saturates the soil except during brief seasonal dry spells and during prolonged droughts. Pocosin soils are nutrient-deficient (oligotrophic), especially in phosphorus.[2]
Pocosin wetland in North Carolina
Pocosins occur in the southern portions of the Atlantic coastal plain of North America, spanning from southeastern Virginia, through North Carolina, and into South Carolina. The majority of pocosins are found in North Carolina.[3] The Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge was created in 1984 to help preserve pocosin wetlands.

The Kvichak River is a large river, about 50 miles (80 km) long, in southwestern Alaska in the United States.[3] It flows southwest from Lake Iliamna to Kvichak Bay, an arm of Bristol Bay, on the Alaska Peninsula.[4] The communities of Igiugig and Levelock lie along the Kvichak River.[4] The Kvichak is navigable along its entire length, and is used as a short cut by boats getting between Cook Inlet and Bristol Bay via the Lake Iliamna portage.

Iliamna Lake or Lake Iliamna (Yup'ik: Nanvarpak; Dena'ina Athabascan: Nila Vena) is a lake in southwest Alaska, at the north end of the Alaska Peninsula, between Kvichak Bay and Cook Inlet, about 100 miles (160 km) west of Seldovia, Alaska

Igiugig (Central Yupik: Igyaraq) is a census-designated place (CDP) in Lake and Peninsula Borough, Alaska, United States. The population was 54 at the 2010 census,[3] up from 53 in 2000. The village is at the source of the Kvichak River, at the outlet of Lake Iliamna.

Seldovia (Alutiiq: Angagkitaqnuuq; Russian: Селдовия) is a city in Kenai Peninsula Borough, Alaska, United States. Its population was 255 at the 2010 census, down from 286 in 2000. It is located along Kachemak Bay southwest of Homer. There is no road system connecting the town to other communities, so all travel to Seldovia is by airplane or boat.

Kachemak Bay (Russian: Качемак) is a 40-mi-long (64 km) arm of Cook Inlet in the U.S. state of Alaska, located on the southwest side of the Kenai Peninsula. The communities of Homer, Halibut Cove, Seldovia, Nanwalek, Port Graham, and Kachemak City are on the bay as well as three Old Believer settlements in the Fox River area, Voznesenka, Kachemak Selo, and Razdolna.

Attu (Aleut: Atan,[1] Russian: Атту) is an island in the Near Islands (part of the Aleutian Islands chain). It is the westernmost point of the U.S. state of Alaska. The island became uninhabited in 2010, making it the largest uninhabited island in the United States.[2]

Semisopochnoi Island or Unyak Island (obsolete Russian: Семисопочной, modern Russian: Семисопочный Semisopochny  – "having seven hills"; Aleut: Unyax̂[1]) is part of the Rat Islands group in the western Aleutian Islands of Alaska. The island is uninhabited and provides an important nesting area for maritime birds. The island is of volcanic origin, containing several volcanoes including Mount Cerberus. It has a land area of 85.558 square miles (221.59 square km), measuring 11 miles (18 km) in length and 12 miles (20 km) in width.

Amatignak Island (Aleut: Amatignax̂;[1] Russian: Амактигнак) is a member of the Delarof Islands (western Andreanof Islands), in Alaska's Aleutian archipelago. The southernmost point of Alaska is on this island, as well as the westernmost longitude of Alaska, the United States, and North America.

Voznesenka (Russian: Вознесенка, pronounced [vəzʲnʲɪsʲˈɪnkə]) is a small unincorporated community in the Kenai Peninsula Borough 23 miles northeast of Homer, Alaska, United States.

Razdolna (Russian: Раздольна, pronounced [rɐzdˈolʲna]) is a small unincorporated community in Kenai Peninsula Borough, Alaska, United States. Located on the Kenai Peninsula, it lies roughly 30 miles east of Homer. The community is one of several settlements of Russian Old Believers in the Fox River area. There are about 30 families in Razdolna.[1] In 2009 the Mile 17 fire threatened the hamlet.[2]

Nanwalek (‘place by lagoon’; Russian: Нануалек), formerly Alexandrovsk (Russian: Александровск) and later English Bay, is a census-designated place (CDP) in the Kenai Peninsula Borough, Alaska, United States, that contains a traditional Alutiiq village. The population was 254 at the 2010 census,[1] up from 177 in 2000. There is one school located in the community, attended by 76 students.

Antioch is the second largest city in Contra Costa County, California, United States. Located in the East Bay region of the San Francisco Bay Area along the San Joaquin–Sacramento River Delta. The city's population was 102,372 at the 2010 census[13] and estimated to be 111,502 in 2019.[14] Formerly an all-white sundown town,[15] the city has grown substantially more diverse since the 1990s.[16][17]

Angola Swamp is a pocosin in southern coastal North Carolina near Jacksonville, in Duplin and Pender counties. Much of the swamp is included in the 34,063-acre (13,785 ha) Angola Bay Game Land, administered by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission. The southern section of the swamp was logged and has a road grid, while the northern portion is wild and roadless. The swamp is drained by the Northeast Cape Fear River.[1][2][3][4][5]

Rouyn-Noranda (2016 population 42,334) is a city on Osisko Lake in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region of Quebec, Canada.

La Vérendrye wildlife reserve is one of the largest reserves in the province of Quebec, Canada, covering 12,589 square kilometres [1] of contiguous land and lake area (Assinica wildlife reserve is the largest in the province, but its territory is broken up in four non-contiguous parts). It is named after Pierre Gaultier de Varennes, sieur de La Vérendrye, a French-Canadian explorer. Located 180 kilometres (110 mi) north of Ottawa (Canada’s capital), it is traversed from south to north by Route 117.

The Ocmulgee River (/ɒkˈmʌlɡiː/) is a western tributary of the Altamaha River, approximately 255 mi (410 km) long, in the U.S. state of Georgia. It is the westernmost major tributary of the Altamaha.[1]

The Oconee River is a 220-mile-long (350 km)[1] river in the U.S. state of Georgia. Its origin is in Hall County and it terminates where it joins the Ocmulgee River to form the Altamaha River near Lumber City at the borders of Montgomery County, Wheeler County, and Jeff Davis County. South of Athens, two forks, known as the Middle Oconee River and North Oconee River, which flow for 55–65 miles (89–105 km) upstream respectively before converging to form the Oconee River.[2] Milledgeville, the former capital city of Georgia, lies on the Oconee River.
Harvey Averne (born 1936, Brooklyn, New York)[1] has been described as "one of several prominent Jewish Americans in New York's bustling Latin music scene."[2]

Luigi "Geno" Auriemma (born March 23, 1954) is an Italian-born American college basketball coach and the head coach of the University of Connecticut Huskies women's basketball team. He has led UConn to eleven NCAA Division I national championships, the most in women's college basketball history, and has won eight national Naismith College Coach of the Year awards.[2] Auriemma was the head coach of the United States women's national basketball team from 2009 through 2016, during which time his teams won the 2010 and 2014 World Championships, and gold medals at the 2012 and 2016 Summer Olympics, going undefeated in all four tournaments.[6] Auriemma was inducted into Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame and the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame in 2006.

The Atakapa /əˈtækəpə, -pɑː/[1][2] (also, Atacapa), were an indigenous people of the Southeastern Woodlands, who spoke the Atakapa language and historically lived along the Gulf of Mexico. The competing Choctaw people used this term for this people, and European settlers adopted the term from them. The Atakapan people were made up of several bands. They called themselves the Ishak /iːˈʃæk/, which translates as "the people."[3] Within the Ishak there were two moieties which the Ishak identified as "The Sunrise People" and "The Sunset People".[4][5] Although the people were decimated by infectious disease after European contact and declined as a people, survivors joined other nations.

The Wacissa River is a large, spring-fed stream located in south-central Jefferson County, Florida. Its headwaters are located about a mile south of the town of Wacissa, where the river emerges crystal clear from a group of large limestone springs. From its headsprings, the river flows approximately 12 miles (19 km) south through a broad cypress swamp before breaking into numerous braided channels which join the Aucilla River a few miles further south. The river is managed by the Florida Fish & Wildlife Conservation Commission as part of the Aucilla Wildlife Management Area, and has been declared an Outstanding Florida Waterway by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.

The Econfina River is a minor river draining part of the Big Bend region of Florida, U.S.A. into Apalachee Bay. The river rises in San Pedro Bay near the boundary between Madison and Taylor counties, and flows 44 miles (71 km)[1] through Taylor County to Apalachee Bay. It has a watershed of 239 square miles (620 km2).

The Ochlockonee River ( /oʊˈklɒknɪ/ o-KLOK-nee) is a fast running river, except where it has been dammed to form Lake Talquin in Florida, originating in Georgia and flowing for 206 miles (332 km)[1] before terminating in Florida.

Lake Talquin is a reservoir located on the Ochlockonee River between Leon County and Gadsden County in north Florida. The lake, located about 10 miles (15 km) west of Tallahassee, is south of Interstate 10 and bordered by State Road 20 on the east and State Road 267 on the west.

Muskogean (also Muskhogean, Muskogee) is a Native American language family spoken in different areas of the Southeastern United States. Though the debate concerning their interrelationships is ongoing, the Muskogean languages are generally divided into two branches, Eastern Muskogean and Western Muskogean. Typologically, Muskogean languages are agglutinative. One documented language, Apalachee, is extinct and the remaining languages are critically endangered.

The Shabakunk Creek is a tributary of the Assunpink Creek in Mercer County, New Jersey, United States.[1] Via the Assunpink, its water ultimately flows into the Delaware River. The name Shabakunk is from the Lenape word meaning "shore land".[2

The Hidatsa are a Siouan people. They are enrolled in the federally recognized Three Affiliated Tribes of the Fort Berthold Reservation in North Dakota. Their language is related to that of the Crow, and they are sometimes considered a parent tribe to the modern Crow in Montana.

Siouan or Siouan–Catawban is a language family of North America that is located primarily in the Great Plains, Ohio and Mississippi valleys and southeastern North America with a few other languages in the east.

The Catawban, or Eastern Siouan, languages form a small language family in east North America. The Catawban family is a branch of the larger Siouan a.k.a. Siouan–Catawban family.
